GALAXY XR + ALVR OVER USB -- PROOF OF CONCEPT

PROJECT VERSION: Beta 0.1

STATUS: Beta 0.1 -- basic USB SteamVR display test passed on one Galaxy XR.
The CI APK was locally re-signed for the test to preserve the existing app data.
The released CI APK retains its original temporary debug signature.
Do not use a random ALVR APK or a different server version with this patch.

WHAT THIS DOES
Shows PC SteamVR content in Galaxy XR using compressed video over a USB cable.
It is not DisplayPort video input. It still uses SteamVR on the Windows PC.
It does not provide a standalone Windows OpenXR runtime that bypasses SteamVR.
No bootloader unlock, firmware downgrade or calibration extraction is needed.

WHAT YOU NEED
1. A Galaxy XR headset with its battery attached.
2. A Windows gaming PC capable of running your SteamVR game.
   The demonstrated PC uses an RTX 3090; other GPUs are not verified here.
3. A USB data cable between the PC and the headset's DATA port.
   For high bitrate use a USB 3 cable and port. A charge-only cable will not work.
4. Steam and SteamVR installed on that PC.
5. Our patched Galaxy XR client and the official matching ALVR Windows server.
   Download the Windows server ZIP here:
   https://github.com/alvr-org/ALVR-nightly/releases/download/v21.0.0-dev13%2Bnightly.2026.09.16/alvr_streamer_windows.zip
   Release page (open Assets if the download is not visible):
   https://github.com/alvr-org/ALVR-nightly/releases/tag/v21.0.0-dev13%2Bnightly.2026.09.16
   Choose alvr_streamer_windows.zip, NOT the debug ZIP or Linux download.
   Extract the ZIP into its own folder and open ALVR Dashboard.exe.
   Do NOT install alvr_client_android.apk from that page: use our patched APK.
   This patch targets 21.0.0-dev13 at:
   ca2decae968f2fd37b43b777cca4ba597808ba52
   The nightly release records the same upstream commit. Its binary still needs
   our short headset test; the demonstrated server was locally built from it.
   Get our patched APK from this project's Beta 0.1 release, not upstream's APK.
6. Google's Android platform-tools for Windows:
   https://developer.android.com/tools/releases/platform-tools

STEP 1 -- PREPARE THE HEADSET
Enable Developer options and USB debugging using the headset's settings.
Connect its DATA port to the PC. Put the headset on and accept the USB debugging
authorization prompt for your own PC. Never authorize a computer you do not trust.
You may charge the external battery separately during use. The headset data port
does not charge the battery.

STEP 2 -- INSTALL THE MATCHING CLIENT
Download Galaxy-XR-ALVR.apk from this project's Beta 0.1 release and the matching
PC server linked above. The original CI signature differs from existing clients.
Never assume that the newest upstream ALVR server matches this development APK.
Extract Google's platform-tools folder beside Connect-USB.ps1.
Open PowerShell in that folder. To install the release APK, run:
  .\platform-tools\adb.exe install -r .\Galaxy-XR-ALVR.apk
The APK is a release asset, not a file stored in the source repository.
If installation reports a signing conflict, do not blindly uninstall your existing
client: uninstalling deletes that application's data. Save what you need first.

STEP 3 -- SET UP THE USB CONNECTION
With the authorized headset connected, run:
  powershell -NoProfile -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\Connect-USB.ps1
This bypass applies only to that PowerShell process, not a permanent policy change.
Read the script before running it. Administrator privileges are not required.
It sets up two USB forwards and detects the Galaxy XR without editing a serial.
You must run it again after unplugging USB or restarting the PC/ADB.

STEP 4 -- CONNECT ALVR
Open the matching ALVR dashboard on the PC and the patched ALVR app on the headset.
In the PC dashboard, find the physical headset under Devices and choose Trust.
Edit that device's manual IP/address to:
  127.0.0.1
Select TCP as the stream protocol in the server's connection settings.
The IP printed in the headset lobby may be its Wi-Fi IP. DO NOT copy that IP for
this USB setup. 127.0.0.1 on the PC connects through the ADB USB forwards.
Start SteamVR from ALVR. Keep the headset on during initial connection.
When connected, the dashboard should report Streaming, and you should see SteamVR.
If SteamVR offers room/boundary setup, follow its normal supported setup process.

STEP 5 -- FIRST SHORT TEST
Start conservatively: HEVC, 72 Hz, 1440 x 1440 per eye, 60 Mbps, SDR,
with foveated encoding disabled. This is a suggested starting point, not a guarantee.
Once the picture works, adjust quality in the PC ALVR dashboard, one setting at a
time. Codec and resolution changes may require restarting the stream.
The visually accepted high setting was HEVC, 72 Hz, 2560 x 2560 PER EYE,
200 Mbps TARGET, SDR, with foveated encoding disabled.
The combined encoded stereo frame is 5120 x 2560. Do not enter that as a per-eye size.
500 Mbps has NOT been tested. A target bitrate is not measured sustained throughput.
Start a familiar game and check comfort, picture alignment and stability.
Stop if the display is uncomfortable or badly misaligned.

IMPORTANT -- KEEPING IT AWAKE
Wear the headset for initial connection and the short test.
Android's stay-awake-while-powered setting did NOT reliably prevent off-head sleep.
Covering the sensor also failed during an active stream after roughly 80 seconds.
The observed sleep reason was xr_doff; eye detection has not been confirmed as the
cause. We do not claim unattended/off-head testing works.

TROUBLESHOOTING
Waiting for streamer / asks to Trust:
  Trust the physical device, run Connect-USB.ps1 again, and verify manual IP
  127.0.0.1 with TCP selected. Start the PC ALVR dashboard and SteamVR.
No headset found:
  Turn it on, try a known data cable/direct PC USB port, and accept USB debugging.
  Run .\platform-tools\adb.exe devices -l. 'unauthorized' means approval is needed;
  'offline' means the connection is not ready. Wake/reconnect the headset and retry.
Starting headset never finishes:
  Wear it normally, check for a system prompt, then close/reopen the headset client.
  Device wakefulness does not guarantee an active OpenXR session.
  A normal headset reboot resolved this stall during our Beta 0.1 test.
  Reconnect USB and run Connect-USB.ps1 again after rebooting.
Green picture:
  Disconnect Windows Remote Desktop and use the PC's local desktop/console.
  Active RDP previously reproduced green output in this setup.
Disconnect after taking the headset off:
  Put it back on, reopen ALVR if needed, and rerun the USB connection script.
Jitter / decoder errors:
  Return to the last working setting. Lower bitrate or resolution separately.

REPORTING A PROBLEM
Use the repository Issues page after the testing release is published.
Include client/server versions, GPU and driver version, codec, Hz, per-eye size,
target Mbps, and steps to reproduce. Say whether you were wearing the headset.
Do not post complete logs without reviewing them. Remove IP addresses, serial
numbers, usernames, local file paths, device names and any credentials.

LICENSE: MIT, with upstream copyright notices retained. See LICENSE.
